tensorflow/tools/tfprof/README.md, before:

# tfprof: A Profiling Tool for TensorFlow Models

Author: Xin Pan (xpan@google.com, github: panyx0718)

Consultants: Jon Shlens, Pete Warden


###Major Features

1.  Measure model parameters, float operations, tensor shapes.
2.  Measure op execution times, requested memory size and device placement.
3.  Inspect checkpoint tensors' shapes and their values.
4.  Explore model based on name scope or graph structure.
5.  Selectively grouping/filtering/accounting/ordering ops.

[Python API Tutorials](#python-api-tutorials): It can be called directly from
Python codes. Results are either printed
to stdout or dumped to file. tensorflow.tfprof.TFProfNode proto is returned from
the API to allow users to perform further analysis.

[CLI Tutorials](#cli-tutorials):
It supports interactive mode for exploration and single-shot mode for
scripts. Outputs can be dumped to files or printed in terminal.

[Options](#options):
tfprof supports many options to selectively account/display/order ops and
statistics.

## Python API Tutorials

tfprof is part of TensorFlow core. Simply ```import tensorflow as tf```.

### Examine the shapes and sizes of all trainiable Variables.
```python
# Print trainable variable parameter statistics to stdout.
param_stats = tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.print_model_analysis(
    tf.get_default_graph(),
    tfprof_options=tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.
        TRAINABLE_VARS_PARAMS_STAT_OPTIONS)

# param_stats is tensorflow.tfprof.TFProfNode proto. It organize the statistics
# of each graph node in tree scructure. Let's print the root below.
sys.stdout.write('total_params: %d\n' % param_stats.total_parameters)
```

### Examine the number of floating point operations
``` python
# Print to stdout an analysis of the number of floating point operations in the
# model broken down by individual operations.
#
# Note: Only Ops with RegisterStatistics('flops') defined have flop stats. It
# also requires complete shape information. It is common that shape is unknown
# statically. To complete the shape, provide run-time shape information with
# tf.RunMetadata to the API (See next example on how to provide RunMetadata).
tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.print_model_analysis(
    tf.get_default_graph(),
    tfprof_options=tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.FLOAT_OPS_OPTIONS)
```

### Examine the timing and memory usage
You will first need to run the following set up in your model in order to
compute the memory and timing statistics.

```python
# Generate the meta information for the model that contains the memory usage
# and timing information.
run_metadata = tf.RunMetadata()
with tf.Session() as sess:
  _ = sess.run(train_op,
               options=tf.RunOptions(trace_level=tf.RunOptions.FULL_TRACE),
               run_metadata=run_metadata)
```

Finally, you may run `print_model_analysis` to explore the timing and memory
demands of the model.

``` python
# Print to stdout an analysis of the memory usage and the timing information
# from running the graph broken down by operations.
tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.print_model_analysis(
    tf.get_default_graph(),
    run_meta=run_metadata,
    tfprof_options=tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.PRINT_ALL_TIMING_MEMORY)
```

Users can change ```tfprof_options``` to fully leverage tfprof's power.


## CLI Tutorials

Tutorials below are based on a 32 layers ResNet.

TODO(xpan): Provide graph.pbtxt, model.ckpt, tfprof_log and run_meta download.

### Examples

1) Start `tfprof` command line tool

```shell
# Build the tool.
bazel build --config opt tensorflow/tools/tfprof/...

# Help information, including detail 'option' instructions.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof help
#
# The following command start tfprof in one-shot mode.
#
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof scope \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --max_depth=3
#
# The following commands will start tfprof interactive mode.
#
# Profile model shapes and parameters only.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt
#
# Additionally profile checkpoint statistics and values.
# Use '-account_type_regexes _checkpoint_variables' to select
# checkpoint tensors.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --checkpoint_path=model.ckpt
#
# Additionally profile ops requested memory and timing.
# See CLI Input Files section on generating run_meta file.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --run_meta_path=run_meta \
    --checkpoint_path=model.ckpt
#
# tfprof_log is used to define customized op types and float ops.
# Use tfprof_logger.write_op_log() to create tfprof_log.
# See 11) in Examples section on generating tfprof_log file.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --run_meta_path=run_meta \
    --op_log_path=tfprof_log \
    --checkpoint_path=model.ckpt
```
Note that `graph.pbtxt` is an ASCII text format.

2) Press enter to show the default options

```shell
tfprof>
tfprof>
-max_depth                  4
-min_bytes                  0
-min_micros                 0
-min_params                 0
-min_float_ops              0
-device_regexes             .*
-order_by                   name
-account_type_regexes       Variable,VariableV2
-start_name_regexes         .*
-trim_name_regexes
-show_name_regexes          .*
-hide_name_regexes          IsVariableInitialized_[0-9]+,save\/.*,^zeros[0-9_]*
-account_displayed_op_only  false
# supported select fileds. Availability depends on --[run_meta|checkpoint|op_log]_path.
# [bytes|micros|params|float_ops|num_hidden_ops|tensor_value|device|op_types]
-select                     params
-viz                        false
-dump_to_file
```

3) I want to see the `BatchNorm`'s gamma value in checkpoint.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --checkpoint_path.
tfprof> scope -show_name_regexes unit_1_0.*gamma -select tensor_value -max_depth 5
_TFProfRoot ()
  unit_1_0/shared_activation/init_bn/gamma ()
[1.80 2.10 2.06 1.91 2.26 1.86 1.81 1.37 1.78 1.85 1.96 1.54 2.04 2.34 2.22 1.99 ],
  unit_1_0/sub2/bn2/gamma ()
[1.57 1.83 1.30 1.25 1.59 1.14 1.26 0.82 1.19 1.10 1.48 1.01 0.82 1.23 1.21 1.14 ],
```

4) I want to see my checkpoint tensors shape and number of parameters.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --checkpoint_path.
# Increase -max_depth to see all tensors.
tfprof> scope -account_type_regexes _checkpoint_variables -select params -max_depth 4
_TFProfRoot (--/930.58k params)
  global_step (0/0 params)
  init/init_conv/DW (3x3x3x16, 432/864 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/1.28k params)
    pool_logit/DW/Momentum (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/20 params)
    pool_logit/biases/Momentum (10, 10/10 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/beta (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/gamma (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_mean (64, 64/64 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_variance (64, 64/64 params)
```

5) I defined an op named ‘cost’ to calculate the loss. I want to know what ops
it depends on take a long time to run. Hint: Use the ‘graph’ command to explore
graph dependencies.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --run_meta_path.
tfprof> graph -start_name_regexes cost.* -max_depth 100 -min_micros 10000 -select micros -account_type_regexes .*
_TFProfRoot (0us/3.61sec)
  init/init_conv/Conv2D (11.75ms/3.10sec)
    random_shuffle_queue_DequeueMany (3.09sec/3.09sec)
  unit_1_0/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (74.14ms/3.19sec)
  unit_1_3/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (60.75ms/3.34sec)
  unit_2_4/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (73.58ms/3.54sec)
  unit_3_3/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (10.26ms/3.60sec)
```

6) I want to know the expensive operations during the back propagation.
Hint: tensorflow prepend ‘gradient’ to your defined name scopes. Use the ‘scope’
command to explore based on name scope hierarchies.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --run_meta_path.
tfprof> scope -start_name_regexes gradient.* -max_depth 100 -min_micros 20000 -select micros -account_type_regexes .*
_TFProfRoot (0us/2.29sec)
  gradients/unit_1_0/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (54.96ms/54.96ms)
  gradients/unit_1_0/sub2/conv2/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (83.63ms/83.63ms)
  gradients/unit_1_1/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (99.25ms/99.25ms)
  gradients/unit_1_2/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (95.40ms/95.40ms)
  gradients/unit_1_2/sub2/conv2/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (99.83ms/99.83ms)
  gradients/unit_1_3/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (95.39ms/95.39ms)
  ...
```

7) Show the number of float operations in the model.
Note: float operations calculation depends on
1) op.RegisterStatistics. If an op doesn’t
have RegisterStatistics defined, its float operations cannot be counted.
2) fully defined shape is also necessary in order to calculate flops. Sometimes
full shape is not available statically. Use RunMetadata to get run-time shape.
float operations number is provided by tensorflow::tfprof::OpLog logged from
Python API.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --op_log_path.
tfprof> scope -min_float_ops 1 -max_depth 10 -select float_ops -account_type_regexes .*
_TFProfRoot (0/17.63b flops)
  gradients/pool_logit/xw_plus_b/MatMul_grad/MatMul (163.84k/163.84k flops)
  gradients/pool_logit/xw_plus_b/MatMul_grad/MatMul_1 (163.84k/163.84k flops)
  init/init_conv/Conv2D (113.25m/113.25m flops)
  pool_logit/xw_plus_b (1.28k/165.12k flops)
    pool_logit/xw_plus_b/MatMul (163.84k/163.84k flops)
  unit_1_0/sub1/conv1/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  unit_1_0/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  unit_1_1/sub1/conv1/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  unit_1_1/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  ...
```

8) Show the number of parameters of all `tf.trainable_variables()` in the model.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path --op_log_path.
# store option for future commands.
tfprof> set -account_type_regexes _trainable_variables
tfprof> scope -max_depth 4 -select params
_TFProfRoot (--/464.15k params)
  init/init_conv/DW (3x3x3x16, 432/432 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/10 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/beta (64, 64/64 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/gamma (64, 64/64 params)
```

Where does “_trainable_variables” come from? It is from the OpLog file
generated by write_op_log() Python API. write_op_log() help users create some
common op types implicitly. Users can define their own op types and log it
through the write_op_log() API.

9) What if I’m lazy and don’t want to define op type? I have given my ops
well-defined names in my model’s code. And want to use names to select a group
of ops. Let’s try it!

```shell
tfprof> set -account_type_regexes .*
tfprof> scope -show_name_regexes unit_2_1.*DW -max_depth 100 -account_displayed_op_only
_TFProfRoot (0/18.43k params)
  unit_2_1/sub1/conv1/DW (3x3x32x32, 9.22k/9.22k params)
  unit_2_1/sub2/conv2/DW (3x3x32x32, 9.22k/9.22k params)
```

The above command allows you to filter ops that match specific names.
`-account_displayed_op_only` asks tfprof to only account ops displayed
in terminal. Otherwise, tfprof accounts all ops matched by
`-account_type_regexes` recursively even if they are hidden due to some
options such as -max_depth.

10) TensorFlow has built-in op types. For example, built-in op type `Variable`
seems to include `Variable's` created by your model. However, be careful when
depending on it because TensorFlow creates extra `Variable` ops implicitly and
the implicitly created ops can have the same prefix as the `Variable's` you
defined.

In the following example, extra `Variables` are created and “/Momentum” is
appended to their names. This might cause you “model capacity” calculation
to get wrong.

```shell
tfprof> scope -account_type_regexes Variable -max_depth 4 -select params
_TFProfRoot (--/930.58k params)
  global_step (1/1 params)
  init/init_conv/DW (3x3x3x16, 432/864 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/1.28k params)
    pool_logit/DW/Momentum (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/20 params)
    pool_logit/biases/Momentum (10, 10/10 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/beta (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/gamma (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_mean (64, 64/64 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_variance (64, 64/64 params)
```


11) A example of defining extra op type for ops using `OpLog`

First, in Python code, create an `OpLog` proto and add op type
information to it:

```python

op_log = tfprof_log_pb2.OpLog()
entry = op_log.log_entries.add()
entry.name = 'pool_logit/DW'
entry.types.append('pool_logit')
entry = op_log.log_entries.add()
entry.name = 'pool_logit/biases'
# Alternatively:
# var = tf.get_variable(xxx)
# entry.name = var.op.name
entry.types.append('pool_logit')
```

Second, call write_op_log to write the OpLog proto.

```python
tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(
    sess.graph, /tmp/my_op_log_dir, op_log)

# Get run-time shape information in order to fill shapes and get flops.
tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(
    sess.graph, /tmp/my_op_log_dir, op_log, run_meta)
```

Third, when starting the tfprof tool, specify
"--op_log_path /tmp/my_op_log_dir/op_log"

```shell
tfprof> scope -account_type_regexes pool_logit -max_depth 4 -select params
_TFProfRoot (--/650 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/10 params)
```

Note that when you call
`tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(...)`,
the tool adds all `Variables` inside `tf.trainable_variables()` to
`_trainable_variables`.

12) Run tfprof in one-shot mode and dump result to file.

```shell
# Printed to stdout if --dump_to_file is not set.
tfprof scope --graph_path=graph.pbtxt  \
             --max_depth=3 \
             --dump_to_file="/tmp/dump"
Reading Files...
Parsing GraphDef...
Preparing Views...

cat /tmp/dump
_TFProfRoot (--/930.58k params)
  global_step (0/0 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/1.28k params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/20 params)
```

13) Analyze how balanced Variable are on parameter servers.

In this tutorial, I'm going to use a seq2seq model, which are split
on several gpus at workers and several parameter servers.

In tfprof, 'device' is an op_type. For example, if op1 and op2 are placed on
gpu0. They share an op_type called 'gpu0'.

```shell
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
  --graph_path ~/tfprof/textsum/graph.pbtxt  \
  --run_meta_path ~/tfprof/textsum/run_meta

# Looks like ps task 1 is holding twice more parameters than task 0.
tfprof> scope -select device,params -account_type_regexes .*ps.*task:0.* -max_depth 1
_TFProfRoot (--/25.81m params)
tfprof> scope -select device,params -account_type_regexes .*ps.*task:1.* -max_depth 1
_TFProfRoot (--/58.84m params)
```

### CLI Input Files

tfprof command line inference (CLI) loads dumped files from a tensorflow model.
Convert them into in-memory data structures. To use it, users need to specify
the locations of the dumped files. The following are the dumped files loaded
by tfprof:

<b>--graph_path:</b> GraphDef text file (required). Used to build in-memory
representation of the model. For example, graph.pbtxt written by tf.Supervisor
is a candidate. If you are not using tf.Supervisor, you can easily get GraphDef
using tf.Graph.as_graph_def() or other API.

<b>--run_meta_path:</b> tensorflow::RunMetadata.
Used to get the memory and time consumption of
each op of the model. Users need to enable it. For example, the following code
snippet writes a RunMetadata file:

```python
run_options = config_pb2.RunOptions(trace_level=config_pb2.RunOptions.FULL_TRACE)
run_metadata = config_pb2.RunMetadata()
# Once a while, call it the get the RunMeta.
_ = self._sess.run(..., options=run_options, run_metadata=run_metadata)
with gfile.Open(os.path.join(output_dir, "run_meta"), "w") as f:
  f.write(run_metadata.SerializeToString())
```

<b>--op_log_path:</b>
tensorflow::tfprof::OpLog. A proto used to provide extra op information
for ops. By giving a group of ops a type name, users can easily aggregate the
statistics for those ops without accidently missing or including extra ops.
tfprof exposes the following Python API to add op information and logging.

```python
tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(graph, log_dir, op_log=None)
```

<b>--checkpoint_path:</b>
TensorFlow checkpoint. It defines _checkpoint_variable op type. It also
provides checkpointed tensors' values.


##Options

`-max_depth`: Show ops that are at most this number of hops from starting op in the tree/graph structure.

`-min_bytes`: Show ops that request at least this number of bytes.

`-min_micros`: Show ops that spend at least this number of microseconds to run.

`-min_params`: Show ops that contains at least this number of parameters.

`-min_float_ops`: Show ops that contain at least this number of float operations. Only available if an op has op.RegisterStatistics() defined and OpLog is provided

`-device_regexes`: Show ops that a placed on the specified devices. regexes are comma-separated.

`-order_by`: Order the results by [name|depth|bytes|micros|params|float_ops]

`-account_type_regexes`: Account and display the ops whose types match one of the type regexes specified. tfprof allow user to define extra op types for ops through tensorflow.tfprof.OpLog proto. regexes are comma-sperated.

`-start_name_regexes`: Show ops starting from the ops that matches the regexes, recursively. regexes are comma-separated.

`-trim_name_regexes`: Hide ops starting from the ops that matches the regexes, recursively, regexes are comma-seprated.

`-show_name_regexes`: Show ops that match the regexes. regexes are comma-seprated.

`-hide_name_regexes`: Hide ops that match the regexes. regexes are comma-seprated.

Notes: For each op, `-account_type_regexes` is first evaluated, only ops with
types matching the specified regexes are accounted and selected for displayed.
`-start/trim/show/hide_name_regexes` are used to further filter ops for display.
`-start_name_regexes` is evaluated first to search the starting ops to display.
Descendants of starting ops are then evaluated against `-show/hide_name_regexes`
to make display decision. If an op matches trim_name_regexes, all its
descendants are hidden. Ops statistics are *accounted even if they are hidden*
as long as they match the `-account_xxx` options.

`-account_displayed_op_only`: If True, only account the statistics of ops eventually displayed. If False, account all op statistics matching -account_type_regexes recursively.

`-select`: Comma-separated list of metrics to show: [bytes|micros|params|float_ops|num_hidden_ops|tensor_value|device|op_types].

`-dump_to_file`: Dump the output to a file, instead of terminal.

Commit message:

Fix tfprof to measure the actual kernel execution time. Change: 151166174

tensorflow/tools/tfprof/README.md, after:

# tfprof: A Profiling Tool for TensorFlow Models

Author: Xin Pan (xpan@google.com, github: panyx0718)

Consultants: Jon Shlens, Pete Warden


###Major Features

1.  Measure model parameters, float operations, tensor shapes.
2.  Measure op execution times, requested memory size and device placement.
3.  Inspect checkpoint tensors' shapes and their values.
4.  Explore model based on name scope or graph structure.
5.  Selectively grouping/filtering/accounting/ordering ops.

[Python API Tutorials](#python-api-tutorials): It can be called directly from
Python codes. Results are either printed
to stdout or dumped to file. tensorflow.tfprof.TFProfNode proto is returned from
the API to allow users to perform further analysis.

[CLI Tutorials](#cli-tutorials):
It supports interactive mode for exploration and single-shot mode for
scripts. Outputs can be dumped to files or printed in terminal.

[Options](#options):
tfprof supports many options to selectively account/display/order ops and
statistics.

## Python API Tutorials

tfprof is part of TensorFlow core. Simply ```import tensorflow as tf```.

### Examine the shapes and sizes of all trainiable Variables.
```python
# Print trainable variable parameter statistics to stdout.
param_stats = tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.print_model_analysis(
    tf.get_default_graph(),
    tfprof_options=tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.
        TRAINABLE_VARS_PARAMS_STAT_OPTIONS)

# param_stats is tensorflow.tfprof.TFProfNode proto. It organize the statistics
# of each graph node in tree scructure. Let's print the root below.
sys.stdout.write('total_params: %d\n' % param_stats.total_parameters)
```

### Examine the number of floating point operations
``` python
# Print to stdout an analysis of the number of floating point operations in the
# model broken down by individual operations.
#
# Note: Only Ops with RegisterStatistics('flops') defined have flop stats. It
# also requires complete shape information. It is common that shape is unknown
# statically. To complete the shape, provide run-time shape information with
# tf.RunMetadata to the API (See next example on how to provide RunMetadata).
#
tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.print_model_analysis(
    tf.get_default_graph(),
    tfprof_options=tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.FLOAT_OPS_OPTIONS)
```

### Examine the timing and memory usage
You will first need to run the following set up in your model in order to
compute the memory and timing statistics.

```python
# Generate the meta information for the model that contains the memory usage
# and timing information.
#
# Note: When run on GPU, a kernel is first scheduled (enqueued) and then
#       executed asynchronously. tfprof only tracks the execution time.
#       Which is from proto CostGraphDef::Node::compute_cost.
#       In addition, a substantial of time might be spent between Python and
#       TensorFlow runtime, which is also not tracked by tfprof.
#
config = tf.ConfigProto(graph_options=tf.GraphOptions(build_cost_model=1))
run_metadata = tf.RunMetadata()
with tf.Session(config=config) as sess:
  _ = sess.run(train_op,
               options=tf.RunOptions(trace_level=tf.RunOptions.FULL_TRACE),
               run_metadata=run_metadata)
```

Finally, you may run `print_model_analysis` to explore the timing and memory
demands of the model.

``` python
# Print to stdout an analysis of the memory usage and the timing information
# from running the graph broken down by operations.
tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.print_model_analysis(
    tf.get_default_graph(),
    run_meta=run_metadata,
    tfprof_options=tf.contrib.tfprof.model_analyzer.PRINT_ALL_TIMING_MEMORY)
```

Users can change ```tfprof_options``` to fully leverage tfprof's power.


## CLI Tutorials

Tutorials below are based on a 32 layers ResNet.

TODO(xpan): Provide graph.pbtxt, model.ckpt, tfprof_log and run_meta download.

### Examples

1) Start `tfprof` command line tool

```shell
# Build the tool.
bazel build --config opt tensorflow/tools/tfprof/...

# Help information, including detail 'option' instructions.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof help
#
# The following command start tfprof in one-shot mode.
#
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof scope \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --max_depth=3
#
# The following commands will start tfprof interactive mode.
#
# Profile model shapes and parameters only.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt
#
# Additionally profile checkpoint statistics and values.
# Use '-account_type_regexes _checkpoint_variables' to select
# checkpoint tensors.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --checkpoint_path=model.ckpt
#
# Additionally profile ops requested memory and timing.
# See CLI Input Files section on generating run_meta file.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --run_meta_path=run_meta \
    --checkpoint_path=model.ckpt
#
# tfprof_log is used to define customized op types and float ops.
# Use tfprof_logger.write_op_log() to create tfprof_log.
# See 11) in Examples section on generating tfprof_log file.
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
    --graph_path=graph.pbtxt \
    --run_meta_path=run_meta \
    --op_log_path=tfprof_log \
    --checkpoint_path=model.ckpt
```
Note that `graph.pbtxt` is an ASCII text format.

2) Press enter to show the default options

```shell
tfprof>
tfprof>
-max_depth                  4
-min_bytes                  0
-min_micros                 0
-min_params                 0
-min_float_ops              0
-device_regexes             .*
-order_by                   name
-account_type_regexes       Variable,VariableV2
-start_name_regexes         .*
-trim_name_regexes
-show_name_regexes          .*
-hide_name_regexes          IsVariableInitialized_[0-9]+,save\/.*,^zeros[0-9_]*
-account_displayed_op_only  false
# supported select fileds. Availability depends on --[run_meta|checkpoint|op_log]_path.
# [bytes|micros|params|float_ops|num_hidden_ops|tensor_value|device|op_types]
-select                     params
-viz                        false
-dump_to_file
```

3) I want to see the `BatchNorm`'s gamma value in checkpoint.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --checkpoint_path.
tfprof> scope -show_name_regexes unit_1_0.*gamma -select tensor_value -max_depth 5
_TFProfRoot ()
  unit_1_0/shared_activation/init_bn/gamma ()
[1.80 2.10 2.06 1.91 2.26 1.86 1.81 1.37 1.78 1.85 1.96 1.54 2.04 2.34 2.22 1.99 ],
  unit_1_0/sub2/bn2/gamma ()
[1.57 1.83 1.30 1.25 1.59 1.14 1.26 0.82 1.19 1.10 1.48 1.01 0.82 1.23 1.21 1.14 ],
```

4) I want to see my checkpoint tensors shape and number of parameters.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --checkpoint_path.
# Increase -max_depth to see all tensors.
tfprof> scope -account_type_regexes _checkpoint_variables -select params -max_depth 4
_TFProfRoot (--/930.58k params)
  global_step (0/0 params)
  init/init_conv/DW (3x3x3x16, 432/864 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/1.28k params)
    pool_logit/DW/Momentum (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/20 params)
    pool_logit/biases/Momentum (10, 10/10 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/beta (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/gamma (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_mean (64, 64/64 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_variance (64, 64/64 params)
```

5) I defined an op named ‘cost’ to calculate the loss. I want to know what ops
it depends on take a long time to run. Hint: Use the ‘graph’ command to explore
graph dependencies.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --run_meta_path.
tfprof> graph -start_name_regexes cost.* -max_depth 100 -min_micros 10000 -select micros -account_type_regexes .*
_TFProfRoot (0us/3.61sec)
  init/init_conv/Conv2D (11.75ms/3.10sec)
    random_shuffle_queue_DequeueMany (3.09sec/3.09sec)
  unit_1_0/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (74.14ms/3.19sec)
  unit_1_3/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (60.75ms/3.34sec)
  unit_2_4/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (73.58ms/3.54sec)
  unit_3_3/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (10.26ms/3.60sec)
```

6) I want to know the expensive operations during the back propagation.
Hint: tensorflow prepend ‘gradient’ to your defined name scopes. Use the ‘scope’
command to explore based on name scope hierarchies.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --run_meta_path.
tfprof> scope -start_name_regexes gradient.* -max_depth 100 -min_micros 20000 -select micros -account_type_regexes .*
_TFProfRoot (0us/2.29sec)
  gradients/unit_1_0/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (54.96ms/54.96ms)
  gradients/unit_1_0/sub2/conv2/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (83.63ms/83.63ms)
  gradients/unit_1_1/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (99.25ms/99.25ms)
  gradients/unit_1_2/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (95.40ms/95.40ms)
  gradients/unit_1_2/sub2/conv2/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (99.83ms/99.83ms)
  gradients/unit_1_3/sub1/conv1/Conv2D_grad/Conv2DBackpropFilter (95.39ms/95.39ms)
  ...
```

7) Show the number of float operations in the model.
Note: float operations calculation depends on
1) op.RegisterStatistics. If an op doesn’t
have RegisterStatistics defined, its float operations cannot be counted.
2) fully defined shape is also necessary in order to calculate flops. Sometimes
full shape is not available statically. Use RunMetadata to get run-time shape.
float operations number is provided by tensorflow::tfprof::OpLog logged from
Python API.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path, --op_log_path.
tfprof> scope -min_float_ops 1 -max_depth 10 -select float_ops -account_type_regexes .*
_TFProfRoot (0/17.63b flops)
  gradients/pool_logit/xw_plus_b/MatMul_grad/MatMul (163.84k/163.84k flops)
  gradients/pool_logit/xw_plus_b/MatMul_grad/MatMul_1 (163.84k/163.84k flops)
  init/init_conv/Conv2D (113.25m/113.25m flops)
  pool_logit/xw_plus_b (1.28k/165.12k flops)
    pool_logit/xw_plus_b/MatMul (163.84k/163.84k flops)
  unit_1_0/sub1/conv1/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  unit_1_0/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  unit_1_1/sub1/conv1/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  unit_1_1/sub2/conv2/Conv2D (603.98m/603.98m flops)
  ...
```

8) Show the number of parameters of all `tf.trainable_variables()` in the model.

```shell
# Requires --graph_path --op_log_path.
# store option for future commands.
tfprof> set -account_type_regexes _trainable_variables
tfprof> scope -max_depth 4 -select params
_TFProfRoot (--/464.15k params)
  init/init_conv/DW (3x3x3x16, 432/432 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/10 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/beta (64, 64/64 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/gamma (64, 64/64 params)
```

Where does “_trainable_variables” come from? It is from the OpLog file
generated by write_op_log() Python API. write_op_log() help users create some
common op types implicitly. Users can define their own op types and log it
through the write_op_log() API.

9) What if I’m lazy and don’t want to define op type? I have given my ops
well-defined names in my model’s code. And want to use names to select a group
of ops. Let’s try it!

```shell
tfprof> set -account_type_regexes .*
tfprof> scope -show_name_regexes unit_2_1.*DW -max_depth 100 -account_displayed_op_only
_TFProfRoot (0/18.43k params)
  unit_2_1/sub1/conv1/DW (3x3x32x32, 9.22k/9.22k params)
  unit_2_1/sub2/conv2/DW (3x3x32x32, 9.22k/9.22k params)
```

The above command allows you to filter ops that match specific names.
`-account_displayed_op_only` asks tfprof to only account ops displayed
in terminal. Otherwise, tfprof accounts all ops matched by
`-account_type_regexes` recursively even if they are hidden due to some
options such as -max_depth.

10) TensorFlow has built-in op types. For example, built-in op type `Variable`
seems to include `Variable's` created by your model. However, be careful when
depending on it because TensorFlow creates extra `Variable` ops implicitly and
the implicitly created ops can have the same prefix as the `Variable's` you
defined.

In the following example, extra `Variables` are created and “/Momentum” is
appended to their names. This might cause you “model capacity” calculation
to get wrong.

```shell
tfprof> scope -account_type_regexes Variable -max_depth 4 -select params
_TFProfRoot (--/930.58k params)
  global_step (1/1 params)
  init/init_conv/DW (3x3x3x16, 432/864 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/1.28k params)
    pool_logit/DW/Momentum (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/20 params)
    pool_logit/biases/Momentum (10, 10/10 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/beta (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/gamma (64, 64/128 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_mean (64, 64/64 params)
  unit_last/final_bn/moving_variance (64, 64/64 params)
```


11) A example of defining extra op type for ops using `OpLog`

First, in Python code, create an `OpLog` proto and add op type
information to it:

```python

op_log = tfprof_log_pb2.OpLog()
entry = op_log.log_entries.add()
entry.name = 'pool_logit/DW'
entry.types.append('pool_logit')
entry = op_log.log_entries.add()
entry.name = 'pool_logit/biases'
# Alternatively:
# var = tf.get_variable(xxx)
# entry.name = var.op.name
entry.types.append('pool_logit')
```

Second, call write_op_log to write the OpLog proto.

```python
tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(
    sess.graph, /tmp/my_op_log_dir, op_log)

# Get run-time shape information in order to fill shapes and get flops.
tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(
    sess.graph, /tmp/my_op_log_dir, op_log, run_meta)
```

Third, when starting the tfprof tool, specify
"--op_log_path /tmp/my_op_log_dir/op_log"

```shell
tfprof> scope -account_type_regexes pool_logit -max_depth 4 -select params
_TFProfRoot (--/650 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/640 params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/10 params)
```

Note that when you call
`tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(...)`,
the tool adds all `Variables` inside `tf.trainable_variables()` to
`_trainable_variables`.

12) Run tfprof in one-shot mode and dump result to file.

```shell
# Printed to stdout if --dump_to_file is not set.
tfprof scope --graph_path=graph.pbtxt  \
             --max_depth=3 \
             --dump_to_file="/tmp/dump"
Reading Files...
Parsing GraphDef...
Preparing Views...

cat /tmp/dump
_TFProfRoot (--/930.58k params)
  global_step (0/0 params)
  pool_logit/DW (64x10, 640/1.28k params)
  pool_logit/biases (10, 10/20 params)
```

13) Analyze how balanced Variable are on parameter servers.

In this tutorial, I'm going to use a seq2seq model, which are split
on several gpus at workers and several parameter servers.

In tfprof, 'device' is an op_type. For example, if op1 and op2 are placed on
gpu0. They share an op_type called 'gpu0'.

```shell
bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/tfprof/tfprof \
  --graph_path ~/tfprof/textsum/graph.pbtxt  \
  --run_meta_path ~/tfprof/textsum/run_meta

# Looks like ps task 1 is holding twice more parameters than task 0.
tfprof> scope -select device,params -account_type_regexes .*ps.*task:0.* -max_depth 1
_TFProfRoot (--/25.81m params)
tfprof> scope -select device,params -account_type_regexes .*ps.*task:1.* -max_depth 1
_TFProfRoot (--/58.84m params)
```

### CLI Input Files

tfprof command line inference (CLI) loads dumped files from a tensorflow model.
Convert them into in-memory data structures. To use it, users need to specify
the locations of the dumped files. The following are the dumped files loaded
by tfprof:

<b>--graph_path:</b> GraphDef text file (required). Used to build in-memory
representation of the model. For example, graph.pbtxt written by tf.Supervisor
is a candidate. If you are not using tf.Supervisor, you can easily get GraphDef
using tf.Graph.as_graph_def() or other API.

<b>--run_meta_path:</b> tensorflow::RunMetadata.
Used to get the memory and time consumption of
each op of the model. Users need to enable it. For example, the following code
snippet writes a RunMetadata file:

```python
run_options = config_pb2.RunOptions(trace_level=config_pb2.RunOptions.FULL_TRACE)
run_metadata = config_pb2.RunMetadata()
# Once a while, call it the get the RunMeta.
_ = self._sess.run(..., options=run_options, run_metadata=run_metadata)
with gfile.Open(os.path.join(output_dir, "run_meta"), "w") as f:
  f.write(run_metadata.SerializeToString())
```

<b>--op_log_path:</b>
tensorflow::tfprof::OpLog. A proto used to provide extra op information
for ops. By giving a group of ops a type name, users can easily aggregate the
statistics for those ops without accidently missing or including extra ops.
tfprof exposes the following Python API to add op information and logging.

```python
tf.contrib.tfprof.tfprof_logger.write_op_log(graph, log_dir, op_log=None)
```

<b>--checkpoint_path:</b>
TensorFlow checkpoint. It defines _checkpoint_variable op type. It also
provides checkpointed tensors' values.


##Options

`-max_depth`: Show ops that are at most this number of hops from starting op in the tree/graph structure.

`-min_bytes`: Show ops that request at least this number of bytes.

`-min_micros`: Show ops that spend at least this number of microseconds to run.

`-min_params`: Show ops that contains at least this number of parameters.

`-min_float_ops`: Show ops that contain at least this number of float operations. Only available if an op has op.RegisterStatistics() defined and OpLog is provided

`-device_regexes`: Show ops that a placed on the specified devices. regexes are comma-separated.

`-order_by`: Order the results by [name|depth|bytes|micros|params|float_ops]

`-account_type_regexes`: Account and display the ops whose types match one of the type regexes specified. tfprof allow user to define extra op types for ops through tensorflow.tfprof.OpLog proto. regexes are comma-sperated.

`-start_name_regexes`: Show ops starting from the ops that matches the regexes, recursively. regexes are comma-separated.

`-trim_name_regexes`: Hide ops starting from the ops that matches the regexes, recursively, regexes are comma-seprated.

`-show_name_regexes`: Show ops that match the regexes. regexes are comma-seprated.

`-hide_name_regexes`: Hide ops that match the regexes. regexes are comma-seprated.

Notes: For each op, `-account_type_regexes` is first evaluated, only ops with
types matching the specified regexes are accounted and selected for displayed.
`-start/trim/show/hide_name_regexes` are used to further filter ops for display.
`-start_name_regexes` is evaluated first to search the starting ops to display.
Descendants of starting ops are then evaluated against `-show/hide_name_regexes`
to make display decision. If an op matches trim_name_regexes, all its
descendants are hidden. Ops statistics are *accounted even if they are hidden*
as long as they match the `-account_xxx` options.

`-account_displayed_op_only`: If True, only account the statistics of ops eventually displayed. If False, account all op statistics matching -account_type_regexes recursively.

`-select`: Comma-separated list of metrics to show: [bytes|micros|params|float_ops|num_hidden_ops|tensor_value|device|op_types].

`-dump_to_file`: Dump the output to a file, instead of terminal.
