tensorflow/lite/micro/docs/renode.md, before:

<!-- mdformat off(b/169948621#comment2) -->

<!--
Semi-automated TOC generation with instructions from
https://github.com/ekalinin/github-markdown-toc#auto-insert-and-update-toc
-->

<!--ts-->
   * [Software Emulation with Renode](#software-emulation-with-renode)
   * [Installation](#installation)
   * [Running Unit Tests](#running-unit-tests)
      * [Under the hood of the Testing Infrastructure](#under-the-hood-of-the-testing-infrastructure)
   * [Running a non-test Binary with Renode](#running-a-non-test-binary-with-renode)
   * [Useful External Links for Renode and Robot Documentation](#useful-external-links-for-renode-and-robot-documentation)

<!-- Added by: advaitjain, at: Tue 10 Nov 2020 09:43:05 AM PST -->

<!--te-->

# Software Emulation with Renode

TensorFlow Lite Micro makes use of [Renode](https://github.com/renode/renode) to
for software emulation.

Here, we document how Renode is used as part of the TFLM project. For more
general use of Renode, please refer to the [Renode
documentation](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

# Installation

Renode can be installed and used in a variety of ways, as documented
[here](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). For the purpose of Tensorflow
Lite Micro, we make use of a portable version for Linux.

 1. Download portable version of Renode for Linux:

    ```
    tensorflow/lite/micro/testing/download_renode.sh tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/downloads/renode
    ```

 2. Install the Renode test dependencies

    ```
    pip3 install -r tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/downloads/renode/tests/requirements.txt
    ```

At this point in time you will be ready to run TFLM tests with Renode.

# Running Unit Tests

All the tests for a specific platform (e.g. bluepill) can be run with:

```
make -f tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/Makefile TARGET=bluepill test
```

 * This makes use of the robot framework from Renode.
 * Note that the tests can currently not be run in parallel.
 * It takes about 25 second to complete all tests, including around 3 seconds for suite startup/teardown and average 0.38 second per test.

## Under the hood of the Testing Infrastructure

Describe how we wait for a particular string on the UART. Some pointers into the
robot files as well as any relevant documentation from Renode.

A test failure is the absence of a specific string on the UART so the test will
wait for a specific timeout period (configured in the .robot) file before
failing.

 * What this means in practice is that a failing test will take longer to finish
   than a test that passes.

 * If needed, an optimization on this would be to have a specific failure
   message as well so that both success and failure can be detected quickly.

# Running a non-test Binary with Renode

Renode can also be used to run and debug binaries interactively. 
For example, to debug `kernel_addr_test` on Bluepill platform, run Renode:

```
tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/downloads/renode/renode
```
and issue following commands:
```
# Create platform
include @tensorflow/lite/micro/testing/bluepill_nontest.resc
# Load ELF file
sysbus LoadELF @tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/gen/bluepill_cortex-m3/bin/kernel_add_test
# Start simulation
start
```
You can also connect GDB to the simulation.
To do that, start the GDB server in Renode before issuing the `start` command:
```
machine StartGdbServer 3333
```
Than you can connect from GDB with:
```
target remote localhost:3333
```

For further reference please see the [Renode documentation](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

# Useful External Links for Renode and Robot Documentation

 * [Testing with Renode](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/introduction/testing.html?highlight=robot#running-the-robot-test-script)

 * [Robot Testing Framework on Github](https://github.com/robotframework/robotframework). For someone new to
   the Robot Framework, the documentation  can be a bit hard to navigate, so
   here are some links that are relevant to the use of the Robot Framework with
   Renode for TFLM:

   * [Creating Test Data](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/RobotFrameworkUserGuide.html#creating-test-data)
     section of the user guide.

   * Renode-specific additions to the Robot test description format are in the
     [RobotFrameworkEngine directory](https://github.com/renode/renode/tree/master/src/Renode/RobotFrameworkEngine). For example,

       * [Start Emulation](https://github.com/renode/renode/blob/master/src/Renode/RobotFrameworkEngine/RenodeKeywords.cs#L41-L42)
       * [Wait For Line On Uart](https://github.com/renode/renode/blob/master/src/Renode/RobotFrameworkEngine/UartKeywords.cs#L62-L63)
     is where `Wait For Line On Uart` is defined.

   * Some documentation for all the [Standard Libraries](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/#standard-libraries)
     that define commands such as:

       * [Remove File](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/libraries/OperatingSystem.html#Remove%20File)
       * [List Files In Directory](https://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/libraries/OperatingSystem.html#List%20Files%20In%20Directory)

Commit message:

Add renode downloads to the Makefile.
Since the first integration with the portable renode, we have converged
on adding synchronous calls to download scripts as part of the Makefile
and this change integrates the renode download with that flow.

tensorflow/lite/micro/docs/renode.md, after:

<!-- mdformat off(b/169948621#comment2) -->

<!--
Semi-automated TOC generation with instructions from
https://github.com/ekalinin/github-markdown-toc#auto-insert-and-update-toc
-->

<!--ts-->
   * [Software Emulation with Renode](#software-emulation-with-renode)
   * [Installation](#installation)
   * [Running Unit Tests](#running-unit-tests)
      * [Under the hood of the Testing Infrastructure](#under-the-hood-of-the-testing-infrastructure)
   * [Running a non-test Binary with Renode](#running-a-non-test-binary-with-renode)
   * [Useful External Links for Renode and Robot Documentation](#useful-external-links-for-renode-and-robot-documentation)

<!-- Added by: advaitjain, at: Tue 10 Nov 2020 09:43:05 AM PST -->

<!--te-->

# Software Emulation with Renode

TensorFlow Lite Micro makes use of [Renode](https://github.com/renode/renode) to
for software emulation.

Here, we document how Renode is used as part of the TFLM project. For more
general use of Renode, please refer to the [Renode
documentation](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

# Installation

Renode can be installed and used in a variety of ways, as documented
[here](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). For the purpose of Tensorflow
Lite Micro, we make use of a portable version for Linux.

Portable renode wil be automatically installed when using the TfLite Micro
Makefile to `tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/downloads/renode`.

The Makefile internally calls the `renode_download.sh` script:

```
tensorflow/lite/micro/testing/renode_download.sh tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/downloads
```

# Running Unit Tests

All the tests for a specific platform (e.g. bluepill) can be run with:

```
make -f tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/Makefile TARGET=bluepill test
```

 * This makes use of the robot framework from Renode.
 * Note that the tests can currently not be run in parallel.
 * It takes about 25 second to complete all tests, including around 3 seconds for suite startup/teardown and average 0.38 second per test.

## Under the hood of the Testing Infrastructure

Describe how we wait for a particular string on the UART. Some pointers into the
robot files as well as any relevant documentation from Renode.

A test failure is the absence of a specific string on the UART so the test will
wait for a specific timeout period (configured in the .robot) file before
failing.

 * What this means in practice is that a failing test will take longer to finish
   than a test that passes.

 * If needed, an optimization on this would be to have a specific failure
   message as well so that both success and failure can be detected quickly.

# Running a non-test Binary with Renode

Renode can also be used to run and debug binaries interactively. For example,
to debug `kernel_addr_test` on Bluepill platform, run Renode:

```
tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/downloads/renode/renode
```
and issue following commands:
```
# Create platform
include @tensorflow/lite/micro/testing/bluepill_nontest.resc
# Load ELF file
sysbus LoadELF @tensorflow/lite/micro/tools/make/gen/bluepill_cortex-m3/bin/kernel_add_test
# Start simulation
start
```
You can also connect GDB to the simulation.
To do that, start the GDB server in Renode before issuing the `start` command:
```
machine StartGdbServer 3333
```
Than you can connect from GDB with:
```
target remote localhost:3333
```

For further reference please see the [Renode documentation](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

# Useful External Links for Renode and Robot Documentation

 * [Testing with Renode](https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/introduction/testing.html?highlight=robot#running-the-robot-test-script)

 * [Robot Testing Framework on Github](https://github.com/robotframework/robotframework). For someone new to
   the Robot Framework, the documentation  can be a bit hard to navigate, so
   here are some links that are relevant to the use of the Robot Framework with
   Renode for TFLM:

   * [Creating Test Data](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/RobotFrameworkUserGuide.html#creating-test-data)
     section of the user guide.

   * Renode-specific additions to the Robot test description format are in the
     [RobotFrameworkEngine directory](https://github.com/renode/renode/tree/master/src/Renode/RobotFrameworkEngine). For example,

       * [Start Emulation](https://github.com/renode/renode/blob/master/src/Renode/RobotFrameworkEngine/RenodeKeywords.cs#L41-L42)
       * [Wait For Line On Uart](https://github.com/renode/renode/blob/master/src/Renode/RobotFrameworkEngine/UartKeywords.cs#L62-L63)
     is where `Wait For Line On Uart` is defined.

   * Some documentation for all the [Standard Libraries](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/#standard-libraries)
     that define commands such as:

       * [Remove File](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/libraries/OperatingSystem.html#Remove%20File)
       * [List Files In Directory](https://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/libraries/OperatingSystem.html#List%20Files%20In%20Directory)
