tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/examples/micro_speech/README.md, before:

# Micro Speech Example

This examples shows how you can use TensorFlow Lite to run a 20 kilobyte neural network model to recognize keywords in speech. It's designed to run on systems with very small amounts of memory such as microcontrollers and DSPs. The code itself also has a small footprint (for example around 22 kilobytes on a Cortex M3) and only uses about 10 kilobytes of RAM for working memory, so it's able to run on systems like an STM32F103 with only 20 kilobytes of total SRAM and 64 kilobytes of Flash.

## Table of Contents

  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Getting Started on a Microcontroller](#getting-started-on-a-microcontroller)
  - [Calculating the Input to the Neural Network](#calculating-the-input-to-the-neural-network)
  - [Creating Your Own Model](#creating-your-own-model)

## Getting Started

To compile and test this example on a desktop Linux or MacOS machine, download [the TensorFlow source code](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow), `cd` into the source directory from a terminal, and then retrieve the support libraries you need by running:

```
tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/download_dependencies.sh
```

This will take a few minutes, and downloads frameworks the code uses like [CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/embedded/cmsis) and [flatbuffers](https://google.github.io/flatbuffers/). Once that process has finished, run:

```
make -f tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/Makefile test_micro_speech
```

You should see a series of files get compiled, followed by some logging output from a test, which should conclude with "~~~ALL TESTS PASSED~~~". If you see this, it means that a small program has been built and run that loads a trained TensorFlow model, runs some example inputs through it, and got the expected outputs. This particular test runs spectrograms generated from recordings of people saying "Yes" and "No", and checks that the network correctly identifies them.

To understand how TensorFlow Lite does this, you can look at the `TestInvoke()` function in [micro_speech_test.cc](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/examples/micro_speech/micro_speech_test.cc). It's a fairly small amount of code, creating an interpreter, getting a handle to a model that's been compiled into the program, and then invoking the interpreter with the model and sample inputs.

## Getting Started on a Microcontroller

Once you have downloaded the dependencies and got the x86/Linux build working, you can try building a version for the STM32F103 'bluepill' device. The following command will build the test and then run it on an emulator, assuming you have Docker installed:

```
make -f tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/Makefile TARGET=bluepill test_micro_speech
```

If you have a real device [(see here for how to set one up)](https://github.com/google/stm32_bare_lib/tree/master/README.md) you can then convert the ELF file into a  a `.bin` format executable to load onto it by running:

```
arm-none-eabi-objcopy \
tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/gen/bluepill_cortex-m3/bin/micro_speech_test \
tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/gen/bluepill_cortex-m3/bin/micro_speech_test.bin \
--output binary
```

## Calculating the Input to the Neural Network

The TensorFlow Lite model doesn't take in raw audio sample data. Instead it works with spectrograms, which are two dimensional arrays that are made up of slices of frequency information, each taken from a different time window. This test uses spectrograms that have been pre-calculated from one-second WAV files in the test data set. In a complete application these spectrograms would be calculated at runtime from microphone inputs, but the code for doing that is not yet included in this sample code.

The recipe for creating the spectrogram data is that each frequency slice is created by running an FFT across a 30ms section of the audio sample data. The input samples are treated as being between -1 and +1 as real values (encoded as -32,768 and 32,767 in 16-bit signed integer samples). This results in an FFT with 256 entries. Every sequence of six entries is averaged together, giving a total of 43 frequency buckets in the final slice. The results are stored as unsigned eight-bit values, where 0 represents a real number of zero, and 255 represents 127.5 as a real number. Each adjacent frequency entry is stored in ascending memory order (frequency bucket 0 at data[0], bucket 1 at data [1], etc). The window for the frequency analysis is then moved forward by 20ms, and the process repeated, storing the results in the next memory row (for example bucket 0 in this moved window would be in data[43 + 0], etc). This process happens 49 times in total, producing a single channel image that is 43 pixels wide, and 49 rows high. Here's an illustration of the process:

![spectrogram diagram](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.tensorflow.org/example_images/spectrogram_diagram.png)


The test data files have been generated by running the following commands:

```
bazel run tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:wav_to_features -- \
--input_wav=${HOME}/speech_commands_test_set_v0.02/yes/f2e59fea_nohash_1.wav \
--output_c_file=yes_features_data.cc \
--window_stride=20 --preprocess=average --quantize=1

bazel run tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:wav_to_features -- \
--input_wav=${HOME}/speech_commands_test_set_v0.02/no/f9643d42_nohash_4.wav \
--output_c_file=no_features_data.cc \
--window_stride=20 --preprocess=average --quantize=1
```

## Creating Your Own Model

The neural network model used in this example was built using the [TensorFlow speech commands tutorial](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/sequences/audio_recognition). If you would like to create your own, you can start by training a model with this command:

```
bazel run -c opt --copt=-mavx2 --copt=-mfma \
tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:train -- \
--model_architecture=tiny_conv --window_stride=20 --preprocess=average \
--wanted_words="yes,no" --silence_percentage=25 --unknown_percentage=25 --quantize=1
```

If you see a compiling error on older machines, try leaving out the `--copt` arguments, they are just there to accelerate training on chips that support the extensions. The training process is likely to take a couple of hours. Once it has completed, the next step is to freeze the variables:

```
bazel run tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:freeze -- \
--model_architecture=tiny_conv --window_stride=20 --preprocess=average \
--wanted_words="yes,no" --quantize=1 --output_file=/tmp/tiny_conv.pb
```

The next step is to create a TensorFlow Lite file from the frozen graph:

```
bazel run tensorflow/lite/toco:toco -- \
--input_file=/tmp/tiny_conv.pb --output_file=/tmp/tiny_conv.tflite \
--input_shapes=1,49,43,1 --input_arrays=Reshape_1 --output_arrays='labels_softmax' \
--inference_type=QUANTIZED_UINT8 --mean_values=0 --std_values=2 \
--change_concat_input_ranges=false
```

Finally, convert the file into a C source file that can be compiled into an embedded system:

```
xxd -i /tmp/tiny_conv.tflite > /tmp/tiny_conv_model_data.cc
```

Commit message:

instructions how to install brew install caskroom/cask/gcc-arm-embedded on Mac OS added.

tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/examples/micro_speech/README.md, after:

# Micro Speech Example

This examples shows how you can use TensorFlow Lite to run a 20 kilobyte neural network model to recognize keywords in speech. It's designed to run on systems with very small amounts of memory such as microcontrollers and DSPs. The code itself also has a small footprint (for example around 22 kilobytes on a Cortex M3) and only uses about 10 kilobytes of RAM for working memory, so it's able to run on systems like an STM32F103 with only 20 kilobytes of total SRAM and 64 kilobytes of Flash.

## Table of Contents

  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Getting Started on a Microcontroller](#getting-started-on-a-microcontroller)
  - [Calculating the Input to the Neural Network](#calculating-the-input-to-the-neural-network)
  - [Creating Your Own Model](#creating-your-own-model)

## Getting Started

To compile and test this example on a desktop Linux or MacOS machine, download [the TensorFlow source code](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow), `cd` into the source directory from a terminal, and then retrieve the support libraries you need by running:

```
tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/download_dependencies.sh
```

This will take a few minutes, and downloads frameworks the code uses like [CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/embedded/cmsis) and [flatbuffers](https://google.github.io/flatbuffers/). Once that process has finished, run:

```
make -f tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/Makefile test_micro_speech
```

You should see a series of files get compiled, followed by some logging output from a test, which should conclude with "~~~ALL TESTS PASSED~~~". If you see this, it means that a small program has been built and run that loads a trained TensorFlow model, runs some example inputs through it, and got the expected outputs. This particular test runs spectrograms generated from recordings of people saying "Yes" and "No", and checks that the network correctly identifies them.

To understand how TensorFlow Lite does this, you can look at the `TestInvoke()` function in [micro_speech_test.cc](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/examples/micro_speech/micro_speech_test.cc). It's a fairly small amount of code, creating an interpreter, getting a handle to a model that's been compiled into the program, and then invoking the interpreter with the model and sample inputs.

## Getting Started on a Microcontroller

Once you have downloaded the dependencies and got the x86/Linux build working, you can try building a version for the STM32F103 'bluepill' device. The following command will build the test and then run it on an emulator, assuming you have Docker installed:

*On Mac OS you need ot have ARM compiler installed, one way of doing so is with brew: brew install caskroom/cask/gcc-arm-embedded*

```
make -f tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/Makefile TARGET=bluepill test_micro_speech
```

If you have a real device [(see here for how to set one up)](https://github.com/google/stm32_bare_lib/tree/master/README.md) you can then convert the ELF file into a  a `.bin` format executable to load onto it by running:

```
arm-none-eabi-objcopy \
tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/gen/bluepill_cortex-m3/bin/micro_speech_test \
tensorflow/lite/experimental/micro/tools/make/gen/bluepill_cortex-m3/bin/micro_speech_test.bin \
--output binary
```

## Calculating the Input to the Neural Network

The TensorFlow Lite model doesn't take in raw audio sample data. Instead it works with spectrograms, which are two dimensional arrays that are made up of slices of frequency information, each taken from a different time window. This test uses spectrograms that have been pre-calculated from one-second WAV files in the test data set. In a complete application these spectrograms would be calculated at runtime from microphone inputs, but the code for doing that is not yet included in this sample code.

The recipe for creating the spectrogram data is that each frequency slice is created by running an FFT across a 30ms section of the audio sample data. The input samples are treated as being between -1 and +1 as real values (encoded as -32,768 and 32,767 in 16-bit signed integer samples). This results in an FFT with 256 entries. Every sequence of six entries is averaged together, giving a total of 43 frequency buckets in the final slice. The results are stored as unsigned eight-bit values, where 0 represents a real number of zero, and 255 represents 127.5 as a real number. Each adjacent frequency entry is stored in ascending memory order (frequency bucket 0 at data[0], bucket 1 at data [1], etc). The window for the frequency analysis is then moved forward by 20ms, and the process repeated, storing the results in the next memory row (for example bucket 0 in this moved window would be in data[43 + 0], etc). This process happens 49 times in total, producing a single channel image that is 43 pixels wide, and 49 rows high. Here's an illustration of the process:

![spectrogram diagram](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.tensorflow.org/example_images/spectrogram_diagram.png)


The test data files have been generated by running the following commands:

```
bazel run tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:wav_to_features -- \
--input_wav=${HOME}/speech_commands_test_set_v0.02/yes/f2e59fea_nohash_1.wav \
--output_c_file=yes_features_data.cc \
--window_stride=20 --preprocess=average --quantize=1

bazel run tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:wav_to_features -- \
--input_wav=${HOME}/speech_commands_test_set_v0.02/no/f9643d42_nohash_4.wav \
--output_c_file=no_features_data.cc \
--window_stride=20 --preprocess=average --quantize=1
```

## Creating Your Own Model

The neural network model used in this example was built using the [TensorFlow speech commands tutorial](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/sequences/audio_recognition). If you would like to create your own, you can start by training a model with this command:

```
bazel run -c opt --copt=-mavx2 --copt=-mfma \
tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:train -- \
--model_architecture=tiny_conv --window_stride=20 --preprocess=average \
--wanted_words="yes,no" --silence_percentage=25 --unknown_percentage=25 --quantize=1
```

If you see a compiling error on older machines, try leaving out the `--copt` arguments, they are just there to accelerate training on chips that support the extensions. The training process is likely to take a couple of hours. Once it has completed, the next step is to freeze the variables:

```
bazel run tensorflow/examples/speech_commands:freeze -- \
--model_architecture=tiny_conv --window_stride=20 --preprocess=average \
--wanted_words="yes,no" --quantize=1 --output_file=/tmp/tiny_conv.pb
```

The next step is to create a TensorFlow Lite file from the frozen graph:

```
bazel run tensorflow/lite/toco:toco -- \
--input_file=/tmp/tiny_conv.pb --output_file=/tmp/tiny_conv.tflite \
--input_shapes=1,49,43,1 --input_arrays=Reshape_1 --output_arrays='labels_softmax' \
--inference_type=QUANTIZED_UINT8 --mean_values=0 --std_values=2 \
--change_concat_input_ranges=false
```

Finally, convert the file into a C source file that can be compiled into an embedded system:

```
xxd -i /tmp/tiny_conv.tflite > /tmp/tiny_conv_model_data.cc
```
